("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- Ronja, you can jump this.
- [Narrator] As summer
turned to Autumn, Ronja
practiced being fearless.
She decided to test
herself by going to
the top of the fort to
leap across Hell's Gap.
When she got there, she was
astonished to find a stranger.
Another child?
At Mattis' fort?
But how?
- Hey, robber's daughter!
I know you, yes I do.
I've seen you running
around the forest.
- Well, I don't know you.
Tell me then, how did
you get into our fort?
- Wouldn't you like to know.
I'm Birk Borkason, and
we moved in yesterday.
- We?
Who's we?
(giggling)
- Borka, me, and Undis.
And our band of twelve robbers.
- Robbers?
Do you mean to say those dirty
devils are in the North Fort?
(laughing)
- You've got it wrong.
You see, over here Borka
Robbers are decent people.
But if it's dirty devils
you're looking for, I
think they live on the
south side of this place.
- You talking about us?
- And for your information,
this isn't the
North Fort anymore.
As of last night it's
called Borka's Keep.
Just you remember that!
- You don't know who
you're dealing with.
When Mattis finds out he'll
go mad and he'll throw you,
and all your horrible Borka
thieves flying off this earth!
- Yeah?
I'd like to see him try!
- Oh no, this is serious.
Who knows what he'll do.
(angry yell)
- What's wrong with you?
Don't you feel well?
- If you dare come
here, I'll give
you a punch on the nose!
(laughter)
- Think you could do
that, robber's daughter?
Not so cowardly
then, little girl.
(upbeat music)
Hey, what's going on?
You were going to
punch me on the nose.
So why didn't you?
Here, I'm coming over.
- I'm not scared!
- Aargh!
- Oh no, he's been
swallowed up by Hell's Gap.
I wish I'd never met him.
Why did they have to come here?
Why did I jump?
We should never have jumped!
(gasp)
Don't you dare move!
- I'll try not to,
but I don't know
if I can keep my balance.
- Put the rope
around your waist.
If you can, tighten it
so you don't slip out.
When it's around you,
start climbing up.
Only when I tell you, right?
Understand me, Birk?
Birk, climb now!
- Aaargh!
(grunting)
- Hurry, will you or
I'll be cut in half.
And I'll end up just
like this old castle!
Climb faster!
- [Birk] Ah, I see
you've fallen asleep!
- Saving lives is tiring.
Are you quite
finished jumping now?
- I'm jumping once more.
To get home to Borka's Keep.
- Hold on, Birk!
You give me back my rope!
Because I'll not be tied to
you any longer than I have to!
- No, of course not.
But after what's
happened to us today.
Maybe we'll be tied
together forever.
(gasp)
Even if it is without a rope.
- Not on your life!
All you Borka Robbers,
go jump off a cliff!
- I wouldn't try that
again if I was you.
It's unneighbourly.
But I have to say,
it was incredibly
nice of you to save my life.
And for that my
friend I thank you.
- How dare you call
me your friend,
you can get lost!
- Oi!
Robber's daughter!
I'll be seeing you!
(laughter)
- Oh no, not if I see you
first, you dirty devil!
(upbeat music)
(angry yelling)
- For the first
time in your life,
I'm going to have
to tell you off.
Ronja!
- And why is that?
- A bit of joking around.
Twisting the truth I
can allow that, but
Ronja why?
You mustn't make up such
ridiculous stories about vermin
invading our fort.
Borka's thieves,
in Mattis' Fort!
Why would you ever
say such a thing?
Even though I know it's just
a little joke you're playing.
It makes my blood boil!
- They all snuck in yesterday,
Borka's son told me that,
all of them, with Undis and-
- Enough!
Borka does not have
a son and heir.
Even if he did I would
have known about it!
Did any of you know about this?
Huh?
- Borka
may have a son now.
- [Robber] Apparently he was
born the same night as Ronja.
- We heard Borka's
wife gave birth
that night in sheer
terror of the thunder.
- Aaaaaaaaaaaaa!
And no one thought to
pass this information on?
- What a waste!
- What other devilish secrets
have you been keeping from me?
And now that snake spawn
has infested our fort?
You've really seen that
Borka scum here?
Ronja, you said
you talked to him?
- Actually, he started
the conversation.
- That snake's
father has moved into
the north side of
my fort with his
thieving gang of robber scum?
- That's not all.
As of last night, they're
now calling it Borka's Keep
whether you like
it or not, Mattis!
(yelling)
- Look out!
- Run!
- If you must throw things.
Then why don't you throw these?
You make a mess,
you clean it up.
Remember that.
- Oww!
- This is our home.
We're meant to be safe here,
like a fox in its lair!
(crying)
But now.
(wailing)
- Mattis?
- That's quite enough of that.
If you've got a
head full of lice,
screaming like a baby
won't get rid of them.
So get up
and do something.
Throwing this meat around
has made it nice and tender.
(gasping)
- Mattis, please don't be sad.
All you have to do is go over
there and throw them out.
- But that's not so easy.
- How do we get the Borka
Robbers, out of the fort?
- First of all, how
were they able to
get in without us seeing them?
- To do that, they
would have had to
pass through Wolf's Valley.
We keep watch there
day and night.
They couldn't have
passed through.
- And how come none of us
have seen them over there?
(groaning)
- I got it!
They came from the sky!
- [Tjorm] You think so, fool?
(laughter)
Maybe they dug a tunnel?
- [Robber] What, through rock?
Doubtful.
- Then it could only have
been through Wolf Valley.
(laughing)
So you think they'd just walked
right up Wolf's Valley, eh.
Walked straight up to the fort
and said "Hello,
dear friends, we
Borka Robbers have
decided to move
into your fort,
and we're sure you
won't mind one bit, eh?"
- Since you seem to
know so much, how
did they get in then?
- I tell you, not through Wolf's
Valley or flying or tunneling.
From the north side, eh.
We haven't got a
guard on that side.
- Why should we keep
a guard over there?
There's no entrance
on that side,
only a sheer drop to the ground.
Unless you think they're like
flies or spiders who can climb
straight into the air.
Hang on.
Ronja, What were you doing
on the roof anyway?
- Me?
I was just watching out that
I didn't fall into Hell's Gap.
- Hmm.
- [Ronja] I should
have asked Birk
to explain how the Borka Robbers
managed to sneak
into the North Fort.
- Wouldn't you like to know?
- Ronja, sleep now.
- From tonight, we set
guards on the roof.
Sturkas.
Tjegge.
Lill-Klippen.
- You got it.
- Leave it to us, Mattis.
- Don't worry.
- Borka will be feeling
very pleased with himself.
And he's stupid enough to
think he can push his luck.
At any moment he
could come rushing
over Hell's Gap like a wild bull
and try to drive
us out of Mattis'
Fort, lock, stock, and barrel.
I'm going to bed now!
Not for sleep.
But to think, and
to curse my enemies.
And woe betide anyone
who disturbs me!
(soft music)
- I thank you.
Robber's daughter,
I'll be seeing you!
- [Narrator] At last,
Ronja had met someone of
her own age.
But of all the people in the
world, why did he have to be
the son of a Borka Robber?
That night, Ronja
wrestled with her feelings
and found it rather
difficult to sleep.
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter,
"Taking without Asking".
Don't miss it!
(upbeat music)